= {ianwhite}[http://github.com/ianwhite] / {inherit_views}[http://github.com/ianwhite/inherit_views] >>{info}[http://ianwhite.github.com/inherit_views] >>{api}[http://ianwhite.github.com/inherit_views/doc]

== Status

inherit_views works with rails 2.x

If you're on <b>rails 2.3 or rails edge</b>, you want {inherit_views/master}[http://github.com/ianwhite/inherit_views/tree/master]

If you're on <b>rails 2.2</b>, you want {inherit_views/rails-2.2}[http://github.com/ianwhite/inherit_views/tree/rails-2.2]

If you're on <b>rails 2.0, or 2.1</b>, you want {inherit_views/rails-2.0-2.1}[http://github.com/ianwhite/inherit_views/tree/rails-2.0-2.1]

== what does it do?

This rails plugin allows your controllers/mailers to inherit their views from parent controllers/mailers.
The default behaviour is to inherit along the ancestor path of the controller/mailer, but you can also specify custom inherit view paths to search.

Example:

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    inherit_views
  end

  class FooController < ApplicationController
    # will look for views in 'views/foo', then 'views/application'
  end

  class BarController < FooController
    # will look for views in 'views/bar', then 'views/foo', then 'view/application'
  end
  
See InheritViews for more details

NOTE: this plugin is not aimed at having multiple view paths for your controllers, which is addressed with the view_paths addition to ActionController::Base for rails 2.0.  Rather, within these view paths, you can inherit views from other controller paths.

== In templates

You can render the 'parent' template from within a template if you so choose.  This works for partials and top-level templates alike.

<b>foo/view.html.erb</b>
  <h1>Foo View</h1>
    
<b>bar/view.html.erb</b>
  <%= render :parent %>
  <h2>With some 'bar' action</h2>
  
rendering bar/view (with the controller setup described above):
  <h1>Foo View</h1>
  <h2>With some 'bar' action</h2>

== Installation

You can install inherit_views as either a plugin or a gem. The easiest method is to install as a plugin
by running the following command in your Rails project's top level directory:

  ruby script/plugin install git://github.com/ianwhite/inherit_views.git

This method will install the plugin into <tt>[RAILS PROJECT HOME]/vendor/plugins</tt>.

If you find yourself installing inherit_views into many plugins a better alternative is to install the
plugin as a gem so that it can be used in any Rails application (this requires {RubyGems}[http://rubygems.org]).

  sudo gem install ianwhite-inherit_views

Then, in your project's <tt>environment.rb</tt>, add a line like the following after the
<tt>Rails::Initializer.run do |config|</tt> line.

  config.gem 'ianwhite-inherit_views', :lib => 'inherit_views'
  
Then restart your sever!

Note that the gem version is compatible with >= Rails 2.3.

== Testing & CI

RSpec is used for testing, so the tests are in <tt>spec/</tt> rather than
<tt>test/</tt> Do rake --tasks for more details.

{garlic}[http://github.com/ianwhite/garlic] is used for CI, see garlic.rb for details on
what versions of rails are tested.

== Contributors

Author: {Ian W. White}[http://github.com/ianwhite]

Contributions by:

* {The Dark One}[http://github.com/thedarkone]

* {Topher Fangio}[http://github.com/topherfangio]
